I know the recent of terrorist assault
on the people of this nation has left a
deep deep wound more than 1,300 innocent
Israelis killed including at least 31
American citizens by the terrorist group
Hamas hundreds hundreds of young people
at a music festival the festival was for
peace for peace gunned down as they ran
for their
lives scores of Innocents from infant to
elderly grandpar parents Israelis and
Americans taken hostage children
slaughtered babies slaughtered entire
families
massacred rape beheadings bodies burned
alive Hamas committed atrocities that
recall the worst ravages of Isis
unleashing pure unadulterated evil upon
the
world there's no rationalizing it no
excusing it period the brutality we saw
would have cut deep anywhere in the
world but it cuts deeper here in
Israel October 7th which was sacred was
sacred Jewish holiday became the
deadliest day for the Jewish people
since the
Holocaust it has brought to the surface
painful memories and scars left by
Millennia of anti-Semitism and the
genocide of the Jewish
people the world watched then it knew
and the world did
nothing we will not stand by and do
nothing
again not today not tomorrow not ever to
those who are living in limbo waiting
desperately to learn the fate of a loved
one especially to families of the
hostages you're not
alone we're working with Partners
throughout the region pursuing every
Avenue to bring home those who are being
held captive by
Hamas I can't speak publicly about all
the details but let me assure you for me
as the American president there's no
higher priority than the release and
safe return of all these
hostages to those who are grieving a
child a parent a spouse a sibling a
friend I know you feel like there's that
black hole in the middle of your chest
you feel like you're being sucked into
it the survivor's remorse the anger the
questions of faith in your soul starting
at staring at that empty chair sitting
shiva the first Sabbath without them
there the everyday things and small
things that you miss the most the scent
when you open the closet door the
morning coffee you shared together the
bend of his smile the perfect pitch of
her laugh the giggle of your little boy
the
baby for those who have lost loved ones
this is what I know they'll never be
truly
gone there's something that's never
fully lost your love for them
and their love for you and I promise you
you'll be walking along some days and
say what would she or he want me to do
you smile when you pass a place that
reminds you of them that's when you know
when a smile comes to your lips before a
tear to your eye that's who you know
you're going to fully make
it that's what will give you the
fortitude to find light in the darkest
hours when terrorists believe they could
bring down bring you down bend your will
break your resolve but they never did
and they never
will instead we saw incredible stories
of heroism and courage Israelis taking
care of one another neighbors forming
watch groups protect their
kibuts opening their homes to shelter
survivors retired soldiers running into
danger once again civilian Medics flying
across rescue flying rescue missions and
off-duty Medics at the music Festival
caring for the wounded before coming
victim before becoming a victim himself
volunteers retrieving bodies of the dead
so families could bury their loved ones
in accordance with Jewish
tradition reservist leaving behind their
families their honeymoons their studies
abroad without hesitation and so much
more the state of Israel is born to be a
safe place for the Jewish people of the
world that's why I was
born long said if Israel didn't exist
we'd have to invent
it while it may not feel that way today
Israel must again be a safe place for
the Jewish people and I promise you
we're going to do everything in our
power to make sure that it will
be 75 years ago just 11 minutes after
its founding President Harry S Truman in
the United States of America became the
first nation to rec recognize
Israel we've stood by your side ever
since we're going to Stand By Your Side
now my Administration been in close
touch with your leadership from the
first moments of this attack we're going
to make sure we have what you have what
you need to protect your people to
defend your nation for decades we've
ensured Israel's qualitative military
Edge and later this week I'm going to
ask the United States Congress for
unprecedented support package for
Israel's defense we're going to keep
Iron Dome fully supplied so we can
continue standing Sentinel over Israeli
Skies saving Israeli lives we moved US
military assets to the region including
positioning the USS Ford carrier strike
group in the Eastern Mediterranean with
the ussi and now are on the way to deter
to defer further aggression against
Israel and to prevent this conflict from
spreading the world will know that is
Israel is Israel is stronger than ever
and my message to any state or any other
hostile actor thinking about attacking
Israel Remains the Same as it was a week
ago don't don't
don't since his terrorist ATT terrorist
attack took place we've seen it
described as Israel's
9/11 though for a nation the size of
Israel was like 15
91s the scale may be different but I'm
sure those Horrors have tapped into so
some kind of Primal feeling in Israel
just like it didn't felt in the United
States shock pain rage an all consuming
rage I understand the many Americans
understand you can't look at what has
happened here to your mothers your
fathers your
grandparents Sons daughters children
even babies and not scream out for
justice
Justice must be
done but I caution this while you feel
that rage don't be consumed by it after
9/11 we were enraged in the United
States while we sought Justice and God
Justice we also made
mistakes I'm the first US president to
visit Israel in time of
war I've made wartime decisions I know
the choices are never clear or easy for
the leadership
there's always cost but it requires
being deliberate it requires asking very
hard
questions it requires clarity about the
objectives and an honest assessment
about whether the path you're on will
achieve those
objectives the vast majority of
Palestinians are not
Hamas Hamas does not represent the
Palestinian people hamash uses innocence
innocent families in Gaza as human
Shields putting their command centers
their weapons their Communications
tunnels in residential
areas Palestinian people are suffering
greatly as well we mourn the loss of
innocent Palestinian lives like the
entire world I was outraged and saddened
by the enormous loss of life yesterday
in the hospital in
Gaza based on the information we've seen
to date it appears a result of an errant
rocket fired by a terrorist group in
Gaza United States equivocally stands
for the protection of civilian life
during conflict and I grieve I truly
grieve for the families who were killed
or wounded by this
tragedy people of Gaza need food water
medicine shelter today I ask these R
cabinet I met with for some time this
morning to agree to the delivery of
life-saving humanitarian assistance to
civilians in Gaza based on the
understanding that there will be
inspections that the aid should go to
civilians not to a
Israel agreed the humanitarian
assistance can begin to move from Egypt
to Gaza let me be clear if amas diverts
or steals the assistance they will have
demonstrated once again that they have
no concern for the welfare of the
Palestinian people and it will
end as a practical matter it will it
will stop the International Community
from being able to provide this
Aid we're working in close cooperation
with the government of Egypt the United
Nations and its agencies like the world
program and other partners in the region
to get trucks moving across the border
as soon as
possible separately I ask Israel that
the global Community demand that the
International Red Cross be able to visit
hostages I just demanded that the United
States fully a just demand that the
United States fully
supports today I'm also announcing $100
million in new US funding for
humanitarian assist assistance in both
Gaza and the West Bank this money will
support more than 1 million displaced
and conflict affected Palestinians
including emergency needs in
Gaza you are a Jewish State you are a
Jewish state which you're also a
democracy like the United States you
don't live by the rules of terrorists
you live by the rule of law when
conflicts flare you live by the law of
Wars what sets us apart from the
terrorist as we believe in the
fundamental Dignity of every human life
Israeli Palestinian Arab Jew Muslim
Christian everyone you can't give up
what makes you who you
are if you give that up then the
terrorists win and we can never let them
win you know Israel is a
miracle a Triumph of faith and resolve
and resilience over impossible pain and
loss
think about October 7th the Jewish
holiday where you read about the death
of
Moses a tragic story of a profound loss
to an entire
nation a death that could have left
helpless hopelessness in the hearts of
the entire of entire
nation but though Moses died his memory
his message his lessons have lived on
for generations of the Jewish people as
well as many others just as the memory
of your loved ones will live on as well
after reading the story of moses' death
those who observe the holiday began
reading the Torah from the very
beginning the story of
creation reminds us of two things first
that when we get knocked down we get
back up again and we begin a new and
second when we're faced with tragedy and
loss we must go back to the beginning to
remember who we are we are all human
beings created in the image of God we
with dignity humanity and
purpose in the darkness to be the light
unto the world is what we're about you
inspire hope and light for so many
around the
world that's what the terrorists seek to
destroy that's what they seek to
destroy because they live in darkness
but not you not
Israel nations of conscience like the
United States and Israel are not
measured solely by the example or power
we're measured by the power of our
example that's why as hard as it is must
keep pursuing peace must keep pursuing a
path so that Israel and the Palestinian
people can both live safely in Security
in dignity and in
peace for me that means a two-state
solution must keep working for Israel's
greater integration with his neighbors
these attacks have only strengthen my
commitment and determination and my will
to get that done I'm here to tell you
the terrorist will not win Freedom will
win so let me end where I
began Israel You're Not Alone the United
States stands with
you I told the story before and I'll
tell it again of my first meeting with
an Israeli Prime Minister 50 years ago
as a young Senator I was sitting across
from gold of May a at her desk in her
office and she had a guy named guy who
later became prime minister sitting next
to me just before the 1973 yam kapor
war and she flipped the maps up and down
telling me how bad things were and how
terrible they were all of a sudden she
looked at me and she said would you like
a
photograph I looked at her she got up
from her desk and walked out into that
hallway I think it's Marble forign
walked out the hallway we walked down
there were a bunch of photographers
standing in front of us we're standing
shoulder toosh shoulder without her
looking at me she said to me knowing I'd
hear her why do you look so worried
Senator
Biden and I said worried like of course
I'm worried and she looked at me and she
didn't look she said we don't worry
Senator we Israelis have a secret
weapon we have nowhere else to
go well today I say to all of Israel the
United St isn't going anywhere either
we're going to stand with you we'll walk
beside you in those dark days and we'll
walk beside you in the good days to come
and they will
come as you say in Hebrew which I'm not
going to attempt to do because I'm such
a terrible linguist I'll say in
English the people of Israel live the
people of Israel live Israel will be
safe secure Jewish and Democratic state
today tomorrow and
forever may God protect all those who
work for
peace God save those who are still In
Harm's Way thank you very much